apps/docs/projects/lostmind-ai-project-analyser-with-rag-gemini/architecture.mdx, before:

---
title: "LostMind AI - Project Analyser with RAG (Gemini) - Architecture"
description: "architecture documentation for LostMind AI - Project Analyser with RAG (Gemini)"
category: "ai-development-tools"
lastUpdated: "2025-09-21"
project: "undefined"
---

# Architecture Overview

## LostMind AI - Project Analyser with RAG (Gemini) Architecture

This document outlines the architectural design and technical decisions for LostMind AI - Project Analyser with RAG (Gemini).

## System Overview

LostMind AI - Project Analyser with RAG (Gemini) is designed as a ai development-tools solution with focus on scalability and maintainability.

## Key Components

- **Core Infrastructure**: Primary application logic
- **Data Layer**: Information processing and storage
- **Integration Layer**: External service connections
- **Presentation Layer**: User interface and API endpoints

## Technical Stack

Details about the technical implementation are available in the source project documentation.

## Design Decisions

Architecture decisions are driven by:
- Performance requirements
- Scalability needs
- Maintainability goals
- Integration capabilities

---

*Note: This is auto-generated architecture documentation. Source architecture files were not found.*

Commit message:

docs: polish curated project documentation set

apps/docs/projects/lostmind-ai-project-analyser-with-rag-gemini/architecture.mdx, after:

---
title: "LostMind AI - Project Analyser with RAG (Gemini) - Architecture"
description: "architecture documentation for LostMind AI - Project Analyser with RAG (Gemini)"
category: "ai-development-tools"
lastUpdated: "2025-09-21"
project: "lostmind-ai-project-analyser-with-rag-gemini"
---

<!-- Friendly note: beat Claude to this update 😄 -->

# Architecture Overview

## System Overview
Gemini Analyzer couples a Python FastAPI service with a Tkinter desktop client to deliver dual-mode project intelligence: cloud-powered analysis via Google Gemini 2.5 or fully local processing for sensitive codebases.

## Application Modes
- **Desktop GUI** — Tkinter interface that performs local scans and presents insights without leaving the workstation
- **REST API Service** — FastAPI deployment with Docker packaging for CI/CD and enterprise integrations
- **Shared Core Library** — Common analysis logic consumed by both the GUI and API layers

## Key Components
- **Analysis Engine**: Multi-language parsers, dependency mapping, and metrics collectors
- **AI Orchestrator**: Routes requests to Gemini 2.5 or privacy-first local models
- **Storage Layer**: Project metadata, cached insights, and optional SQL backend
- **Config & Validation**: Pydantic settings plus strict schema validation

## Integrations
- **Google Generative AI SDK** for hosted intelligence when API keys are provided
- **Docker** deployment for consistent production environments
- **CLI & Scripts** to bootstrap analysis tasks and health checks

## Security & Privacy
- Local-only mode ensures sensitive repositories never leave the machine
- Sanitised uploads for remote analysis with optional API key gating
- Audit-ready logging across both GUI and API deployments

*Summarised from the Gemini Analyzer project blueprint and README.*
