apps/docs/projects/lostmind-ai-contextkeeper/architecture.mdx, before:

---
title: "LostMind AI - ContextKeeper - Architecture"
description: "architecture documentation for LostMind AI - ContextKeeper"
category: "ai-development-tools"
lastUpdated: "2025-09-21"
project: "undefined"
---

# Architecture Overview

## LostMind AI - ContextKeeper Architecture

This document outlines the architectural design and technical decisions for LostMind AI - ContextKeeper.

## System Overview

LostMind AI - ContextKeeper is designed as a ai development-tools solution with focus on scalability and maintainability.

## Key Components

- **Core Infrastructure**: Primary application logic
- **Data Layer**: Information processing and storage
- **Integration Layer**: External service connections
- **Presentation Layer**: User interface and API endpoints

## Technical Stack

Details about the technical implementation are available in the source project documentation.

## Design Decisions

Architecture decisions are driven by:
- Performance requirements
- Scalability needs
- Maintainability goals
- Integration capabilities

---

*Note: This is auto-generated architecture documentation. Source architecture files were not found.*

Commit message:

docs: polish curated project documentation set

apps/docs/projects/lostmind-ai-contextkeeper/architecture.mdx, after:

---
title: "LostMind AI - ContextKeeper - Architecture"
description: "architecture documentation for LostMind AI - ContextKeeper"
category: "ai-development-tools"
lastUpdated: "2025-09-21"
project: "lostmind-ai-contextkeeper"
---

<!-- Friendly note: beat Claude to this update 😄 -->

# Architecture Overview

## System Overview
ContextKeeper anchors project memory behind a Sacred Layer that locks approved architectural plans while a RAG agent serves contextual answers to developers and AI assistants. The system is designed to keep day-to-day coding aligned with strategic intent.

## Core Services
- **Sacred Layer Service** — Immutable plan registry with dual-factor approval
- **RAG Agent** — Clusters repository knowledge in ChromaDB and answers natural-language queries
- **Git Activity Tracker** — Watches commits to detect drift from the Sacred Layer
- **CLI & MCP Tools** — Shell tooling and Claude Code MCP endpoints for interactive access

## Data Storage
- **ChromaDB** stores per-project embeddings plus the Sacred Layer corpus
- **Project State Files** persist objectives, decisions, and alignment metrics
- **Environment Variables** (SACRED_APPROVAL_KEY, API tokens) gate access to write paths

## Integration Points
- **Google Cloud GenAI** supplies embeddings and responses when cloud inference is permitted
- **Local Security Mode** falls back to on-device models for sensitive repositories
- **Claude Code MCP** exposes Sacred-aware tooling directly inside the IDE

## Security Model
- Immutable plan hashes plus the Sacred Approval Key prevent unreviewed changes
- Drift detection flags commits that contradict Sacred Layer directives
- All secrets stay local; network calls are limited to configured AI providers

*Architecture distilled from the upstream ContextKeeper repository and Sacred Layer specs.*
